Mithril update 2026-05-20 (#786)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-05-20-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-05-20-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the preparation of the refactoring of the recursive circuit, the preparation of the prover input implementation in the STM library, the off-circuit verification tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype, and the replacement of the temporary certificate circuit with the STM circuit. They also continued work on the circuit keys caching for the SNARK circuit in the STM library, the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives prover input, the preparation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate implementation, and the non-recursive certificate circuit benchmarks.

The team also continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, the robust support for unknown and in progress signed entity types, the enforcement of the DMQ message id format, and the enhancement of the synchronization of immutable files of the Cardano database.

> Finally, the team completed the enforcement of Mithril crates versions in downstream Mithril crates, and the enhancement of the protocol security page on the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed the refactoring of the recursive circuit, the preparation of the prover input implementation in the STM library, the off-circuit verification tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype, and the replacement of the temporary certificate circuit with the STM circuit. They also continued work on circuit key caching for the SNARK circuit in the STM library, the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives prover input, the preparation of the SNARK-friendly genesis certificate implementation, and the non-recursive certificate circuit benchmarks.

The team continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, robust support for unknown and in-progress signed entity types, enforcement of the DMQ message ID format, and enhancements to immutable file synchronization for the Cardano database.

Finally, the team completed enforcement of Mithril crate versions in downstream Mithril crates and enhanced the protocol security page on the website.
```
